Welcome back and in the previous lesson we set up the ability to for the user to actually guess some
values and then we could detect if they were right or wrong and then we still need to do some fine tuning
where we need to clean up the array and so on.
So that's something that usually I do last.
So at the end of the day whenever we're resetting and we're restarting we've got to clear out all of
those variables that we've been setting.
So that should all divert back to the original values.
So we need to clear out the arrays and so on.
So we're well worry about that at the end of our fine tuning of the application.
So for now our next step is to be able to show the user what they've guessed.
We've created a div called Guess And now let's add some divs in here for the user to be able to see
what they've actually guessed.
So this has to happen on the old guests within the old guest function and we can put it before or after
we add in that item into the array so it doesn't actually matter the order.
So first of all let's create a variable.
So this is going to be my div that I'm going to create Agas call it D for now and will do document.
Do do remember earlier how we looked at hand.
We saw how we can create an element dynamically.
So that's what we're going to do now we're going to create a dynamic Dev on the fly.
So now we're ready to start working with that element.
So we've created that div and
let's add in a class name so we can do div and let's do a class name.
So this was this is our way of adding in the class so that we can add in that same class name that we've
represented there.
So we're going to actually add in whatever the user guest.
And so we've got that value sitting in G.
So we know that we can add the class name that format.
The next thing that we need to do is we need to make it clickable so we want to have an on click function
to fire off and we'll just do this as an anonymous function within this function itself.
So set up the On Click on these elements that word on the element that we're creating and the next thing
that we want to do is we want to remove that element if the guess was wrong.
So basically what that means is that we need to actually know the index value in order to remove it.
So let's add in another attribute so we're going to add in an attribute we're going to put it under
data set and we're going to just add in an attribute called V and the value of v will be the length
of the array.
So we know that if our array.
Currently our guess is zero we haven't pushed anything into their array yet.
So the value of v will be zero.
And if we've got one item in the array when we're coming in and we're building this out then this is
going to be a value of 1 and so on and so on.
So we know that we can actually set up and add in that value.
So now we know which item what the index value is within the array.
And the next object objective is to actually get that value and be able to make use of that.
So let's grab that value and I'm going to just call it I remove.
So this is the value that we want it to remove out of our array and we're getting the index value that
we want to remove it and we need to use the get attribute so event and we're going to use them to target
and get attribute and the attribute that we're going to grab is going to be data dush.
And for now let's just console log this out just to make sure that we're doing everything properly because
we've done quite a bit of work and we haven't actually tried it out yet.
And also I wanted to still add in the ability to append.
So let's
let's guess into our global variables.
We could also add it there as well.
But for now let's just added it globally.
So I can use Guess and I can append that child there.
So let's do guess and append that newly created element.
So we have to do is use the append child method and then within here we need to specify D because this
is the element that we created and we want to append.
So now let's try it out.
So no we've added quite a lot of stuff here.
And this was all in the ability to make those guesses.
So let's try it out.
And there's actually one thing that's missing and this is the same thing that happened before where
we're not actually able to see it because we don't have any contents in there.
So let's go ahead and create a box and this one we're going to copy some of the parameters from here
and this time we're going to make it a little bit quite a bit smaller.
So make it 100 by 100.
And also I wanted to add in that class that we've just created.
So that was baulks so that we can actually see it.
So I don't think that we actually need to know the class of what we're passing in.
So let's try this again.
Let's refresh let's start and this time we're actually able to create those classes.
And we also have to make those inline inline blocks as well.
So it falls in line.
And the only thing that's actually missing is we're not actually adding in the right color backgrounds
so we're adding in all of these guesses but we don't actually see that the colors are being added in
there either.
So we have a few options we could add them as a text notes we could add in some text in there as well.
And then we can append that text to the D element that we created.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and add in the style a background color and use the value
of the class name from before.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So at this point when we're creating that element we've got quite a few options.
We can do in style we can add in text into it if we need to.
So I'm going to just do background color so that we have these nice colorful boxes and the background
color.
We already have it from the class name that we've grabbed from the elements up there.
So now if we go out and if we Reiff we start it we can see that we're able to add in all of the colors
properly.
And once we hit 4 then we actually should stop.
And we're not able to add in any additional ones.
So essentially the game play is over at this time so we need to reset at this time.
So we see that.
Let's try this one more time and hit.
So we've got green red red green.
And so we see that we are correct.
So we've got that pattern there.
We're able to see the colors that we've selected and make use of those.
So the next thing that I want to do is I actually want to have the ability to remove those elements
and when we added in this remove if we opened up the developer console so got that one over and over
here.
So opening that up.
Now when I click those we can see that those are in line with our index values that we have within our
array.
So we know that we can go back into the code and we can't simply remove out those values so we can splice
it out from our array by using that index value.
So we want you to pause the video and do that where whenever we're clicking these to move it out of
the array and then the second part is that we're going to have to actually remove this element.
So there's two parts to this.
So pause the video.
I remove it from the array and then also remove it from from the display area.
So those are the two parts and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution to it is to remove it out of the array.
We can use splice and splice gives us the ability to remove it from with we have the index value we
can have a starting point and we can remove a number of elements.
So we'll simply remove it from that array.
So now when we click it it's removed out of the array.
And the second part of the challenge was that we actually want to remove that entire element.
So there is a really nice trick here in order to do that so we can select itself and then we go over
to the parent.
So we select the parent node and then we try our spark and we do remove child.
So we use the remove child method from the parent node and then within here we need to specify that
object.
So we can use that target once again.
So let's try that 8 and click start.
So you've got red red red and now when I click those I can simply remove those out.
So I see that now at this point and I'm not going actually getting to 4.
So we see that until I get to 4.
It doesn't actually update my guess and we still need to take care of a few bugs because we shouldn't
be able to continuously add in to that object.
So that's the next challenge is to find out where this application has bugs.
So we're going to have some bug fixing and sort that out.
So that's the next part of this challenge.
So what are you to do now is positivity to run the application and try to identify some of the bugs
that we're having within this application.
So one of the main ones is that we seem to be able to continuously click here and we need a way to shut
that off.
So one of the best ways that usually I like to do is I like to just a global variable and I call it
something like game play and I'll set it to false.
So basically if this is false then I can't do anything else.
So even if I'm clicking on it I don't want any of this to happen.
So this is where I can add in a condition and I can just say gameplay.
So if gameplay.
So if it's true then it will run through all of this and if it's not true then we're simply going to
ignore all of this functionality and we're not going to actually do any anything with it.
So basically all that means is the game is over.
So we don't need to do anything with it.
So we need a way to set the gameplay to true.
And we can do that whenever we start.
So the start we're going to set it to true.
And now we have a controller where we can switch the game play on and off.
So we know that once we hit the maximum number and we're actually doing our condition where we're seeing
where the lengths are equal This is where we need to shut our game play off.
So we need to go back and shut this off to false.
So basically the user can't add anything else into the game play so it's not the other thing that we
noticed as well is we need to reset some of this stuff because when we hit start we're building out
this inner h tim l of C buttons.
So we need to clear that out.
So let's go ahead and let's clear out the inner east.
And it's actually not the inner H.M.S. buttons that we need to clear out because we don't need to really
clear those buttons.
All we're doing here is we're constantly overwriting.
So the other one is we need to clear out the arrays.
So we've got the two arrays and we need to simply set those arrays to be blank and to set arrays to
be blank you just call it to a blank array value.
So just as we initialize them we can clear those and set them to be blank.
So the other one that we need to do is we actually have to clear out all of these guesses.
So this is all contained within that one element where we're simply.
So that was my guess.
So we can go over to here and we can clear out.
Yes.
By doing inner h him l and equaling that to just blank.
So now let's do one more run of this.
And just to see if things are working properly.
So you've got red green yellow yellow so we get.
You are correct.
And I can't actually click anything else and it looks like that was working.
So try it one more time and this time we're going to guess wrong where and remove out some of these
items from the array and we'll just keep trying to guess.
So what's happened here is that we're actually stopping the game play for some reason but we haven't
guessed them all out and that's because your guess red green yellow yellow and the correct order was
blue green blue green but we're only displaying so we can still click those off.
So that is still functioning and
that's not working right either so we need to actually prevent the ability from clicking those if the
gameplay is has been removed so we still have these on clicks here.
So this is another one that we have to make sure that the game play is active.
So the on click game play is active before we try to remove anything out.
So one more time let's go ahead and try to try to finish this one off.
So now let's play around with this.
We're going to add in different ones.
We don't seem to be able to click off.
And we see that your guess was red blue green yellow.
That's correct.
So that turned out right and the correct order was red yellow green red and we can't do anything else.
So all we can do is start it.
We have to still clear out that message there.
So we need to clear out the contents of output
so message and output we need to clear out the contents of both of them.
We're actually putting in our guess.
So when we hit start let's do message.
And in our h to him out and we'll just say game started.
So now one more time let's run through this and see if we need to make any additional tweaks so I've
got blue yellow yellow yellow.
So we were correct.
So that's two incorrect.
So your guess was red green blue green.
Correct.
Was Red Green green yellow.
So we can't do anything.
And when we hit start then we see game has started.
So everything is working properly and we've completed all of our bug fixes.
So now it's up to you to take what we've learned within the past few lessons and apply it to your own
version of this game make some updates add in some additional elements into the array and also try out
different functionality.
You can create some scoring as well within the game so try to build out your own version of the scheme
make some improvements to what we've gone through and make some updates and adjustments as needed.